CIP-0107? | URI Scheme - Block and transaction objects (#635)
cardano-foundation/CIPs: CIP-0107/README.md

---
CIP: 107
Title: URI Scheme - Block and transaction objects
Status: Proposed
Category: Tools
Authors:
    - Pi Lanningham <pi@sundaeswap.finance>
Implementors: N/A
Discussions:
    - https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/556
Created: 2020-09-22
License: CC-BY-4.0
---

## Abstract

This extends CIP-13, which describes a Cardano URI scheme, with several more objects that would be useful to be able to assign addresses to, in particular blocks, transactions, transaction metadata, and transaction outputs.

## Motivation: why is this CIP necessary?

CIP-13 defined two initial URL authorities, for payment links and delegating to a stakepool.

However, in a number of contexts, it would be useful to canonically link to other Cardano objects, such as:
- Providing links to a transaction, to be opened in a wallet or chain explorer of the users choice

> - To provide richly interconnected metadata, such as in [CIP-100](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/556)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To provide richly interconnected metadata, such as in [CIP-100](https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/tree/master/CIP-0100)
```

Without a canonical standard for how to define these URIs, these objects are either unaddressable, not machine-interpretable, or will suffer from a divergence of convention. Similarly, we seek to fit an existing structure, such as CIP-0013, to reduce the number of different conventions that need be supported by the ecosystem.

## Specification

We extend CIP-13 with 2 new authorities for referencing blocks and transactions.

Examples:
```

> web+cardano://block/c6a8976125193dfae11551c5e80a217403d953c08ebbd69bba904d990854011f

Reviewer 2: (1 of 2) If `height=` is preserved in the query part of the URI syntax documented below, an example should be added here.

Reviewer 2: p.s. should be considered along with @Crypto2099's https://github.com/cardano-foundation/CIPs/pull/635#discussion_r1424224364.

> web+cardano://block/c6a8976125193dfae11551c5e80a217403d953c08ebbd69bba904d990854011f

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
web+cardano://block?hash=c6a8976125193dfae11551c5e80a217403d953c08ebbd69bba904d990854011f
web+cardano://block?height=12345678890
```

web+cardano://transaction/7704a68404facf7126fa356f1b09f0e4c552aeef454cd0daba4208f3a64372e9
web+cardano://transaction/7704a68404facf7126fa356f1b09f0e4c552aeef454cd0daba4208f3a64372e9#1
web+cardano://transaction/7704a68404facf7126fa356f1b09f0e4c552aeef454cd0daba4208f3a64372e9/metadata
web+cardano://transaction/d3616b772c91f118346e74863d1722810a4858e4d7cc7663dc2eed345d7bca72/metadata/674
web+cardano://transaction/self/metadata/1694
```

### Grammar & interpretation

We extend the grammar from CIP-0013 with two new authorities:

```
authorityref = (... | blockref | transactionref)
```

#### Block queries

A link referencing a block by either block hash or height.

> WARNING: Referencing blocks by height is provided in the case of extremely tight space requirements, but referencing a recent block (within the rollback horizon of the chain) is unstable.  Due to chain re-orgs, it may refer to different content for different users, or at different times. This should only be used when this is not critical, or for blocks outside of the rollback horizon.

```
blockref = "//block" query

> query = ( "?block=" block_hash | "?height=" block_height)

Reviewer 2: (2 of 2) If `height=` is eliminated due to reservations about immutability (as per the previous & current discussion), it should be removed here.
